this is the stuff that that really would
be magic it would be considered magic in
times past in fact I think it actually
goes beyond that because there are many
things that we take for granted today
that weren't even imagined in times past
they weren't even in the realm of magic
so it actually goes beyond that so I
thought well you know if if I can do
some of those things basically if I can
advanced technology then that that's
like magic and I would be really cool
and the the I also had sort of a slight
existential crisis because I was trying
to figure out what does it all mean like
what's the purpose of things and I came
to the conclusion that if we can advance
the the knowledge of the world if we can
do things that expand the scope and and
scale of consciousness then we're better
able to ask the right questions and
become more enlightened and and that's
really the only way forward
welcome to top cast part 2 of chapter 9
optimism that was Elon Musk who of
course is just getting on and doing
what's fun and and along the way of
solving lots of problems and improving
things for people of today and tomorrow
that was him speaking at Caltech during
a commencement speech I think back in
in today's episode there's a real focus
on optimism has applied to people to our
institutions and to us as individuals
people are knowledge creators and we
just heard from Elon there that he has
felt that his calling was to create
knowledge and quite right that's us
that's our nature if anything is our
nature to create knowledge we don't all
have to be creating knowledge about
rockets or rapid transportation systems
we might just be creating knowledge in
our own lives about how to best have
tomorrow be better than today we're all
striving to solve our problems we're all
equal in that so let's continue
continuing with the book further
misconception is Hawking's analogy
between our civilization and
pre-enlightenment civilizations as
certain as I shall explain in Chapter 15
there is a qualitative difference
between those two types of civilization
culture shock need not be dangerous to a
post-enlightenment one I'm skipping a
little bit and David writes in the case
of our civilization the precautionary
principle rules itself out since our
civilization has not been following it a
transition to it would entail reining in
the rapid technological progress that is
underway and such a change has never
been successful before so a blind
pessimists would have to oppose it on
principle so and this is me in other
words just for a little bit of
exposition on just that bit which I
found subtle is that our civilization is
the one that has been making progress so
in a way the precautionary principle the
profession err principle says avoid
making big changes because they're
dangerous avoid making progress because
it's dangerous in this case it would
seem to implore us not to make any big
changes to our society which is the very
society that's undergoing big changes
it's kind of self-refuting
really is self-refuting in that way
and David writes this may seem like
logic chopping but it is not the reason
for these paradoxes and parallels
between blind optimism and blind
pessimism is that those two approaches
are very similar level of explanation
both prophetic both purport to know and
knowable things about the future of
knowledge and since at any instance our
best knowledge contains both truth and
misconception prophetic pessimism about
any one aspect of it is always the same
as prophetic optimism about the other
for instance Reese's worst fears depend
upon the unprecedented creation of
unprecedented power for technology such
as civilization destroying bioweapons if
Reese is right that the 21st century is
uniquely dangerous and if civilization
nevertheless survives it it will have
had an appallingly narrow escape our
final century mentions only one other
example of a narrow escape namely the
cold war so that will make two narrow
escapes in a row yet but that standard
civilization must already have had a
similarly narrow escape during the
Second World War
for instance Nazi Germany came close to
developing nuclear weapons the Japanese
Empire didn't successfully represented
plague and had tested the weapon with
devastating effect in China and had
plans to use it against the United
States many feared that even a
conventionally won victory by the Axis
powers could bring down civilization
Churchill warned of a new Dark Age made
more sinister and perhaps more
protracted by the lights of perverted
science though as an optimist
he worked to prevent that in contrast
the Austrian writer Stefan Zweig and his
wife committed suicide in 1942 in the
safety of neutral Brazil because they
considered civilization to be already
doomed so that would make it three
narrow escapes in a row but was there
not a still earlier one in 1798 Malthus
had argued in his influential essay on
population that the 19th century would
inevitably see a permanent end to human
progress he had calculated that the
exponentially growing population at the
time which was a consequence of various
technological and economic improvements
was reaching the limit of the planets
capacity to produce food and this was no
accidental misfortune he believed that
he discovered a law of nature about
population and resources first the net
increase in population in each
generation is proportional to the
existing population so the population
increases exponentially or
geometrical ratio as he put it but
second when food production increases
for instance as a result of bringing
formerly unproductive land into
cultivation the increase is the same as
it would have been if that innovation
happened in any other time it is not
proportional to whatever the population
happens to be he called this rather
idiosyncratically an increase in
arithmetic oratio and argued that
population when unchecked increases in
geometric ratio subsistence increases
only an arithmetic ratio a slight in a
slight acquaintance with numbers will
show the immensity of the first power in
comparison with the second his
conclusion was that the relative
well-being of humankind in this time was
a temporary phenomenon and that he was
living at a uniquely dangerous moment in
history the long-term state of humanity
must be an equilibrium between the
tendency of populations to increase in
the one hand and on the other starvation
disease murder and war just this happens
in the biosphere in the event throughout
the 19th century a population explosion
happened much as Malthus had predicted
yet the end of human progress that he
had foreseen did not in part because
food production increased even faster
than the population then during the 20th
century both increased Farber still or
pause there this is a hobby horse of
mine I suppose I've cataloged some other
people who've made similar prophecies of
doom over the decades they do happen
rather regularly now there's people who
appear in the media all the time talking
about the doom that is to come there's
money to be made in doom saying the
media likes the pessimists but not so
much the optimists if you want to read
some more criticism Malthus and those
who followed in these footsteps all the
way through to today you can Google my
essay that I have titled cosmological
economics why infinite growth is no bad
thing and that's my summary of
Malthusian pessimism over the last few
decades and alternatives to it following
day but of course especially in its
present chapter anti humanism and
pessimism are tied together or as I like
to say pessimism broadly speaking is the
fundamental field out of which those
other special cases are excitations
those excitations of the pessimistic
field are things like anti
humanism and socialism or other forms of
authoritarianism or antinatalism and
certain kinds of effective altruism and
so on the effective altruists will get
upset at me but um if you go to the ei
website the WWF eval cruising org the
website and you just go to their About
section which is um the article titled
introduction to effective al - it
introduction to effective altruism it's
basically a catalogue of all these
concerns we find elsewhere they're very
much wide like Bostrom is about
existential risk and they think that we
need to have some form of redistribution
that that's the kind of a theme but they
they suggest that you you give to
charity in order to to redistribute the
money I don't think they're they're not
they're not really forthcoming with the
top-down authoritarian approach yet I
always get suspicious when altruism
doesn't begin with either oneself or
with one's local community but is then
focused on these massive global things
because the more distant you get from
the problem you're trying to solve the
less you tend to know about it will
McCaskill the the philosopher one of the
people who are credited with coming up
with a lot of the philosophy surrounding
effective altruism he talks about this
case of the play pump the play pump was
an invention which seemed like a good
idea at the time to help people in
Africa pump water from wells the old
hand pumps seem to be too much work so
they invented this thing called to play
pump that kids could jump on and play
like a merry-go-round and push around
and it would pump water as well as it
turned out the play pump is a terrible
idea because kids don't want a planet
it's too hard and so now you have a
situation where in certain places in
Africa if the play pump still exists it
has to be pushed in a rather undignified
way by the old women of the village
what's the lesson here the lesson here
is that if you yourself are not in if
you yourself are not experiencing the
problem and you try and solve someone
else's problem with
Consulting them so what probably the
best of the bad bunch is to simply give
the money right to give them cash if
you're going to force a solution onto
anyone will he have some money now we
can get into the political ideas about
the liability of giving money the the
actual solution of course to people in
poverty is to trade with them is to find
something of value that they can give to
you and there is always something of
value that they can give to you always
people are creative unique individuals
and given the opportunity they will sell
you something and you will want to buy
it and so this is the way this this this
idea of having free trade of allowing
people to enter wealthy markets who
themselves aren't wealthy and then to
improve their lot this is what history
shows works and reduces and will
eliminate poverty if we allow it to
top-down solutions tend to do quite the
opposite there are pessimistic ideas
about how people's creativity doesn't
have sufficient value that we would like
to invest in or that we more wealthy
people would like to invest in but I
think that's simply false ok let's
continue with the book Malthus had
accurately foretold the one phenomenon
but had missed the other altogether why
because of the systematic pessimistic
bias to its prophecy is prone in 1798
the forthcoming increase in population
was more predictable than the even
larger increase in food supply not
because it was in any sense more
probable but simply because it depended
less on the creation of knowledge by
ignoring that structural difference
between the two phenomenon that he was
trying to compare Malthus slipped from
educated guesswork into blind prophecy
he and many of his contemporaries were
misled into believing that they had
discovered an objective asymmetry
between what he called the power of
population and the power of production
but that was just a parochial mistake
the same one that Mickelson and Lagrange
made they all thought they were making
solar predictions based on the best
knowledge available to them in reality
they were all allowing themselves to be
misled by the ineluctable fact of the
human condition that we did not yet know
what we have not yet discovered let me
pause there so
Martin Rees Nick Bostrom anyone else who
thinks they can extrapolate based upon
the best of today's knowledge into the
future ignores that that we can't know
what we have not yet discovered and so
wouldn't matter if you've got a
wonderfully complex set of mathematical
formulae and charts and graphs that you
can extrapolate those charts and graphs
just as Malthus did all the way back in
1798 can lead you into a gross error
because you can't possibly hope to know
what is going to be discovered tomorrow
let alone in 10 years let alone in a
hundred years then what can completely
change the calculus completely change
your priors and therefore upset your
Bayesian reasoning it's not Bayesian
reasoning is Bayesian unreason david
mentions their um educated guesswork and
i just want to UM go off on a little
tangent about that as well this would be
a very narrow genre of epistemology this
this concept of educated guesswork
it's rather I suppose the kind of thing
that medical doctors might be often up
to so when you've got a complex system
like the human body and the timer isin
I'm solving a particular problem in
front of you is really short so if we
don't get the answer with the next few
minutes or hours or you know most days
the patient might die it's important we
distinguish between wild guessing which
is what many of us might engage in if
we're trying to figure out what's wrong
with us medically an educated guesswork
which is what the experienced doctor
might engage in seeing the same symptoms
the latter educated guesswork is really
about when we have competing good
explanations the same symptoms but
different causes we want to know the
cause so we can find the appropriate
treatment and that would come with
experience now this is rather unlike
what happens with let's say climate
change there the climate is also a
complex system like the human body
however the change that happens isn't on
a matter of minutes hours and days the
time horizon is far far
later it's a time horizon within which
knowledge can be created by people that
can affect the outcome and lots of
knowledge can be created in years and
decades the time in which the climate
change is supposed to happen at earliest
at earliest I mean many of the
predictions are you know you're talking
many decades or centuries now this is
unlike with a patient who has just come
into the emergency department the the
patient the proverbial patient has just
turned up at the emergency department
our educated guesswork is required
because nothing is going no new
knowledge is going to be created you
know no new explanatory theory is going
to be sent down by the oncologists or by
the medical scientists that is going to
change the decision of that doctor
within the next couple of minutes that
extremely unlikely however for the
expert climatologists they're trying to
figure out what's going to happen with
the climate and devise possible
solutions for the climate we're talking
about again years to decades centuries a
time during which the educated guesswork
can be completely undone the educated
guesswork at that point is
indistinguishable from blind the
guessing from from from wild guessing
okay because we might very well create
knowledge over the next year's that can
completely change what the outcome is
going to be okay so David writes another
Malthus norisse intended to prophesy
they were warning that unless we solve
certain problems in time we are doomed
but that has always been true and always
will be problems are inevitable as I
said many civilizations have fallen even
before the dawn of civilization all of
our sister species such as the Venini
and Ethel's became extinct through
challenges with which they could have
easily have coped had they known how
genetic studies suggest that our own
species came close to extinction about
70,000 years ago as a result of an
unknown catastrophe which reduced its
tonal numbers to only a few thousand
being overwhelmed by these and other
kinds of catastrophe would have seemed
the victims like being forced to play
Russian roulette that is to say it would
have seemed to them that no choices they
could have made except perhaps to seek
the intervention of the gods more
diligently
affected the odds against them but this
was a parochial error civilization
starved long before Malthus because of
what they thought of as the natural
disasters of drought and famine but it
was really because of what we would call
poor methods of irrigation and farming
in other words lack of knowledge
skipping a bit now and then David writes
if a one kilometer asteroid had
approached the earth on a collision
course at any time in human history
before the early 21st century it would
have killed at least a substantial
proportion of all humans in that respect
as in many others we live in an era of
unprecedented safety the twenty-first
century is the first-ever moment when we
have known how to defend ourselves from
such impacts which occur once every
250,000 years or so now this may sound -
ready care about but it is random a
probability of 1 in 250,000 of such an
impact at any in any given year means
that a typical person on earth but at a
far larger chance of dying of an
asteroid impact been in an airplane
crash and the next such object to strike
us is already out there at this moment
speeding towards us with nothing to stop
it except human knowledge civilization
is vulnerable to several other known
types of disaster with similar levels of
risk for instance ice ages occur more
frequently than that and many ice ages
occur much more frequently and some
climatologist believe that they can
happen with only a few years warning a
supervolcano such as the one lurking
under Yellowstone National Park could
blot out the Sun for years at a time if
it happened tomorrow our species could
survive by growing food using artificial
light and civilization could recover the
many would die and the suffering would
be so tremendous that such events should
be mirrored almost as much preventative
effort as an extinction we do not know
the probability of of a spontaneously
occurring incurable plague but me we may
guess that it is unacceptably high since
pandemics such as the Black Death in the
14th century have already shown us the
sort of thing that can happen on a
timescale of centuries should any of
these catastrophes learn we now have at
least a chance of creating the knowledge
required to survive in time we have a
chance because we are able to solve
problems problems are inevitable which
laws be faced with the problem of how to
plan for the an unknowable future we
shall never be able to afford to sit
back and hope for the
even if our civilization moves out into
space in order to hedge its bets as
recent Hawking both rightly advised a
gamma-ray burst in our galactic vicinity
would still wipe us all out such an
event is thousands of times rarer than
an asteroid collision but when it does
finally happen we shall have no defense
against it without a great deal more
scientific knowledge and an enormous
increase in our wealth our poor stasis
my reflection
we should note there as David does the
gamma-ray bursts are known at least we
know they exists but what about things
we don't yet know about well they're
infinite and in some sense more scary
this is what is astonishing with the
Pirozhki way of thinking that animates
people that are engaged in certain kinds
of political discussions rather softer
now focused simply on this so-called big
problem that requires all of us to
donate massive resources towards and
worse to curb wealth creation the very
thing that can help us with the problems
that we don't yet know about wealth to
many people is of course a dubious thing
it's an immoral thing and this is
another deeply religious notion it comes
to us via a bad cultural meme the idea
that poverty is a virtue
and it's not merely a Christian idea the
yeast hazard as well but the assumption
is that the problems we have now are the
biggest problems we will have tomorrow
and the heart of the problem rather too
often is regarded as being us and all of
that is in fact the biggest problem okay
this idea that we are the cause of the
biggest problems and these biggest
problems that we have today are going to
continue through to being the biggest
problems tomorrow but until we recognize
that in fact it is people who are the
solution and wealth is a great thing you
know we need we need so much more of it
to help fund people's creativity so we
can engage with these problems we
haven't foreseen that might arise
tomorrow or the next day we may well end
up causing events that bring to pass our
own demise because we've slowed down
our wealth creation too much too quickly
or even at all any amount of slowing
wealth creation and progress is very
dangerous the this whole idea that we
are the problem as too many people in
the planet begins of this rather
religious type premise it's sort of this
this idea from Thomas Hobbes almost that
we're all evil or the idea from you know
the Genesis that were born with original
sin we hear it you know that we should
be careful about exploring the cosmos
because we're going to pollute it as
we've polluted the earth polluted this
planet that's the environmentalist
concern and that we shouldn't have more
children because people just exist in a
state of suffering and to bring more
people into the world is a terribly
immoral thing this is the anti-natal
Asoka view and the anti necklace i think
like the environmentalists they they
they all think they're on the side of
morality they think they're on the side
of doing good but morality is really as
david says elsewhere in the beginning
infinity that one mole injunction is not
to destroy the means of error correction
and I suppose that has a few corollaries
that would mean we should increase the
amount of error correction we have not
merely failed to destroy it but also
where we have the opportunity to to
increase our rate of error correction
how do we do that creativity whose
creative people therefore we need more
of them we need more people to create
the areas that we have in the air as a
infinite and we will continue to be
confronted by them and of course one way
to do is just to have global suicide to
remove everyone and then there is
absolutely no problem at all I think
this is a terrible idea but some people
take it seriously some people think that
people are evil whereas I think the
people are a source of progress and
they're the only thing that could create
good in this universe so those who want
to curb human life in one way to treat
us like some sort of cosmic virus
they're about curbing creativity
reducing creativity in the form of us
they're about slowing down error
correction or perhaps stopping error
correction altogether if they can stop
the birth of people but given that
people are the means of error correction
we need more of them that's optimism
people are knowledge creators so they
reduce evil in the world okay skipping a
little bit and then David writes how can
we formulate policies for the unknown if
we cannot derive them from our best
existing knowledge or from dogmatic
rules of thumb like blind optimism or
pessimism where can we derive them from
like scientific theories policies cannot
be derived from anything
there are conjectures and we should
choose between them not on the basis of
their origin but according to how good
they are as explanations how hard to
vary like the rejection of empiricism
end of the idea that knowledge is
justified true belief understanding that
political policies are conjectures
entails the rejection or a previously
unquestioned philosophical assumption
again popper was a key advocate of this
rejection he wrote and this is one of my
favorite passages that popper did ever
write it's a huge discovery in
epistemology in fact it really does form
the core of poppers epistemology so let
me read the quote that David has put
into the beginning infinity popper wrote
the question about the sources of our
knowledge has always been asked in the
spirit of what are the best sources of
our knowledge the most reliable ones
those which will not lead us into error
and those to which we can and must turn
in case of doubt as the last Court of
Appeal I propose to assume instead that
no such ideal sources exists no more
than ideal rulers and that all sources
are liable to lead us into error at
times and I propose to replace
therefore the question of the sources of
our knowledge by the entirely different
question how can we hope to detect and
eliminate error
knowledge without authority 1960 then
David goes on the question how can we
hope to detect and eliminate error is
echoed by finaland remark that science
is what we have learned about how to
keep from fooling ourselves and the
answer is basically the same for human
decision-making as it is for science it
requires a tradition of criticism in
which good explanations are sought for
example explanations of what has gone
wrong what would be better what effect
various policies have had in the past
and what would have in the future but
want you say explanations if they cannot
make predictions and so cannot be tested
through experience as they can be in
science this is really the question how
is progress possible in philosophy as I
discussed in chapter 5 it is obtained by
seeking good explanations the
misconception that evidence complained
no legitimate role and philosophy is a
relic of empiricism objective progress
is indeed possible in politics just as
it is in morality generally and in
science political philosophy
traditionally centered on a collection
of issues that popper called the who
should rule question who should wield
power should it be a monarch or
aristocrats or priests or a dictator or
a small group or the people or their
delegates and that leads to derivative
questions such as how should a king be
educated who should be enfranchised in a
democracy how does one ensure an
informed and responsible electorate just
pause there of course I'm there's a
there's an article that a David and I
like to tweet however regularly when
people begin to engage in these
questions about who should rule and it
is the the article from The Economist
however popper wrote about what is
democracy it's about what is democracy
and democracy is about of course how to
most easily remove rulers without
violence rather than how to install
certain rulers but you do hear this
today you hear there's certainly in
Australia I know the same discussion
goes on the United Kingdom and you you
hear it from certain people in the
United States as well about how we need
a more scientifically literate
additions we need politicians who
understand science more or we need more
scientists in politics think well again
this is who should rule but the person
who should rule should have some sort of
scientific understanding and I don't
understand that at all
although one thing if you listen to the
if you listen to the RSI discussion
between Martin Rees and David Deutsch I
was heartening to hear actually um them
both agree in Martin Rees to talk about
how he didn't really think it was a
great idea for politicians to have a
background in science he would much
rather than have a background in let's
say history and I suppose if I had a
bias one way or the other I'd tend to
agree with him on that okay so back to
the book popper pointed out that this
class of questions is rooted in the same
misconception is the question how a
scientific theory is derived from
sensory data which defines empiricism it
is seeking a system that derives or
justifies the right choice of leader or
government from an existing idea such as
inherited entitlements the opinion of
the majority the same misconception also
underlies blind optimism and pessimism
they both expect progress to be made by
applying a simple rule to existing
knowledge to establish which future
possibilities to ignore and which to
rely on induction instrumentalism and
even Lamarckism all make the same
mistake they expect explanation less
progress they expect knowledge to be
created by Fiat with few errors and not
by a process of variation in selection
that is making a continual stream of
errors and correcting them the defenders
of hereditary monarchy doubted that any
method of selection of a lead of our
means of rational thought and debate
could be improved upon
like I'm skipping a substantial bit here
now and I'll just point people to of
course the book and to poppers important
essay in the Economist as well I'll have
the link there at the bottom of this
video and also put it up on the screen
now and but the the the the central
point here that David is making in which
it's echoing popper here is that
democracy is about trying to avoid
violence it's about this political
system of non-violence instead of
installing a ruler who is the best
because if the ruler is the best then
there they should be kept there by some
sort of force and so the who should rule
question is Papa says and the who should
rule question really can be traced all
the way back to Plato begs for a violent
authoritarian answers and has often
received them as David has written
they're coming papa so I just read a
very small part here where David writes
Papa therefore applies is basic how can
we detect and eliminate errors to
political philosophy in the form of how
can we rid ourselves of bad governments
without violence just as science seeks
explanations that are experimentally
testable so a rational political system
makes it as easy as possible to detect
and persuade others that a leader or
policy is bad and to remove them without
violence if they are so this is real a
philosophy of non-violence it's
absolutely crucial I think to to Papa's
political philosophy and I've had some
disagreements with people over the years
about to what extent papa believed in
coercion and I don't think he really did
it depends in some senses he seems to
have been a little more socialist and so
on but but there's no point arguing I
don't think there's much point arguing
about what papa actually thought I'd
rather concentrate on the ideas the idea
being what is the place of force and
coercion in politics if any well it's
remarkable to me how many people seem to
think some level of initiating violence
is necessary state violence I'm not just
talking about violent in response to
violence of someone else initiates
violence you need some kind of police
force to stop that violence or to
respond to that violence or some guard
or some you yourself take personal
responsibility for responding to that
initiation of violence but there's many
many people who think the state should
initiate violence and should be
initiated against people who disagree
with the policies of the state so you
know for example
and I've listened to some professed s--
optimists just to see how optimistic
they are on this point you've got
Matthew Ridley he wrote a book called
the rational optimist Steven Pinker
probably the the the the so-called most
prominent probably the most prominent
optimist
rivals with David Deutsch is being
labeled an optimist but I don't find
either of these people Matthew riddle
your student Pinker universally
optimists like the way David deutsches
because both Ridley in Pinker not to
mention everyone else is not an optimist
okay which is everyone they believe in
the initiation of force by the state in
order to address certain problems they
really do a heart they're both kind of
with Thomas Hobbes you know they think
there's some kind of inherent evil
lurking there in people that needs to be
tamed and controlled the pink is not a
blank slate astir nor am i but he like
many other who throw in with the ideas
of evolutionary psychology think that
what evolution has written onto our
blank slates before birth really is
quite bad in many ways not universally
bad not completely bad but there are
some bad aspects to our nature and so
we've got these genes for rape and genes
for violence within us and so even
someone like Pinker you know the most
celebrated of optimist falls into
terrible pessimism about people and what
they're going to be compelled to do it's
like they take William Golding's the
Lord of the Flies I've never read Lord
of the Flies you should read Lord of the
Flies or at least to the movie and this
idea that left to their own devices
without state control without some sort
of imposition of power from the top the
people will fall into violent panicking
and tyranny because of their genes are
compelling them to violence the thing is
that every society has always been ruled
by violence it's been kept under control
by a certain amount of violence thus the
state is built on this kind of
philosophy of violence it's certainly
built on a philosophy of pessimism not
not optimism it should be no surprise
that now and again
people do rebel against the state and
the control of state especially when
they feel that the only way to rebel is
through violence so many religions you
know Christianity probably chief among
them views use people as as inherently
immoral in some way they begin immoral
in minutes this process of trying to
become more moral over time and it's not
just the West it's not just Christianity
here we in certain Asian cultures
historically there was some kind of a
version of Confucianism called legalism
and it's hard it's all people as immoral
as well and so the idea there is that
you need the strong state in order to
control these evil people most
organization most organized religion is
kind of based upon this kind of
principle there's some something wrong
with people inherently and so they
cannot be relied upon to not fall into a
complete matter anarchy left to their
own devices were born tainted were born
evil not good and this is a pessimistic
view of what humans are and the
potential of humans some skipping just a
a small amount here and then david
writes thus systems of government are to
be judged not for their prophetic
ability to choose and install good
leaders and policies but for their
ability to remove bad ones that are
already there
that entire stance is fallibilism in
action it assumes that rulers and
policies are always going to be flawed
that problems are inevitable but it also
assumes that improving upon them is
possible problems are soluble
the ideal towards which this is working
is not that nothing unexpected will go
wrong but that when it does it will be
an opportunity for further progress ok
I'm going to pause there that's the end
of this part and yet there's still much
more to to read and to comment upon
[Music]